[#705] Added technical documentation (#706)
kiesraad/e-ks: docs/code-architecture.md

period, so the candidate list can be built up over multiple sessions before it
is submitted.

## Domain glossary

The code, the routes, and the `src/app/<domain>/` folders all use the terms
below. Each has an established Dutch name from the Kieswet (the Dutch electoral
law); the English term is what the code uses. Article references are to
Hoofdstuk H of the Kieswet (*De inlevering van de kandidatenlijsten*) unless
noted otherwise.

| Term (code) | Dutch | Kieswet | Role in the process |
|-------------|-------|---------|---------------------|
| Political group | Politieke groepering | Art. G 1 | The party taking part in the election. It has a registered name (the *aanduiding*), registered with the central electoral committee under Hoofdstuk G, that may be printed above its list. Modelled by `political_groups`. |
| Candidate list | Kandidatenlijst | Art. H 1 | The ordered list of candidates a political group submits for one or more electoral districts. This is the central artifact of the procedure and is filed as model **H1** (the form's model is fixed under Art. H 1, derde lid). Modelled by `candidate_lists`. |

> | Candidate | Kandidaat | Art. H 6, H 9 | A person standing for election on a candidate list, at a specific position (ordering: Art. H 6). Each candidate provides a consent declaration, model **H9** (*instemmingsverklaring*, Art. H 9). Modelled by `candidates`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Candidate | Kandidaat | Art. H 6, H 9 | An electable person on a candidate list, at a specific position (ordering: Art. H 6). Each candidate provides a consent declaration, model **H9** (*instemmingsverklaring*, Art. H 9). Modelled by `candidates`. |
```

> | Person | Persoon | n/a | A natural person record (personal data, address). A code-level abstraction, not a Kieswet term: the same person can be a candidate on multiple lists. Modelled by `persons`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Person | Persoon | n/a | A natural person record (personal data, address). A code-level abstraction, not a Kieswet term. A single person can be a candidate on multiple lists. Modelled by `persons`. |
```

| Electoral district | Kieskring | Art. H 2 | The geographic district a candidate list is submitted for; the list states which kieskring(en) it is filed for. A list is scoped to one or more districts. |

> | List submitter | Lijstinleveraar | Art. H 3, eerste lid | The voter who hands the candidate list in, in person, to the central electoral committee. The notice of defects (*verzuimbrief*) is sent to this person's address. Modelled by `list_submitters`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| List submitter | Lijstinleveraar | Art. H 3, eerste lid | The voter who hands in the candidate list to the central electoral committee in person. The notice of defects (*verzuimbrief*) is sent to this person's address. Modelled by `list_submitters`. |
```

> | Substitute list submitter | Vervanger (voor het herstel van verzuimen) | Art. H 5 (Art. I 2) | One or more persons named on the list who, if the submitter is unavailable, may repair defects (*verzuimen*) in the list on the submitter's behalf (the *verzuimherstel* itself: Art. I 2). Modelled by `substitute_list_submitters`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Substitute list submitter | Vervanger (voor het herstel van verzuimen) | Art. H 5 (Art. I 2) | One or more persons named on the list who, if the submitter is unavailable, may correct mistakes (*verzuimen*) on the list on the submitter's behalf (the *verzuimherstel* itself: Art. I 2). Modelled by `substitute_list_submitters`. |
```

> | Authorised agent | Gemachtigde | Art. H 3, tweede/derde lid (Art. G 1, derde lid) | The party's agent, registered with the central electoral committee under Hoofdstuk G, who authorises placing the party name above the list. This authorisation is filed as model **H3-1** (or **H3-2** for a combined name). Modelled by `authorised_agents`. |

Reviewer: is the word party chosen here deliberately? i.e. is this _only_ applicable to parties or to any political group?

Author: party is a unofficial name for political group - soo maybe we should just stick to political group

> | Representative | Gemachtigde van kandidaat | Art. H 10, H 10a | For a candidate residing outside the European part of the Netherlands: a representative, named in the candidate's consent declaration, who receives official correspondence (such as the appointment letter) on the candidate's behalf. Stored on the `persons`/`candidates` data. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Representative | Gemachtigde van kandidaat | Art. H 10, H 10a | For a candidate residing outside the European part of the Netherlands: a representative, named in the candidate's consent declaration, who receives official correspondence (such as the appointment letter) on the candidate's behalf. Stored in the `persons`/`candidates` data. |
```

| Support declaration | Ondersteuningsverklaring | Art. H 4 | A declaration of support for a list, model **H4**, required in certain cases. |

Both an "authorised agent" and a candidate's "representative" are a *gemachtigde*
in Dutch, but they are distinct roles: the authorised agent acts for the party
name (H3-1, Art. H 3), the representative acts for an individual candidate
living outside the Netherlands (Art. H 10).

The **H-models** are the official forms; each is named after the Kieswet article
that requires it and whose model is fixed by ministerial regulation: H1 (Art.
H 1), H3-1 / H3-2 (Art. H 3, vijfde lid), H4 (Art. H 4, zevende lid), H9 (Art.
H 9, vierde lid).

The `submit` domain validates the assembled data and renders the official forms

> (the **H-models** H1, H3-1, H4, H9) as PDFs; `audit_log` is a read view over the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(the **H-models** H1, H3-1, H4, H9) as PDF files; `audit_log` is a read view over all
```

recorded changes.

### Election types

Every piece of data belongs to one election, represented by the `ElectionConfig`
enum (`src/core/election/`). The user picks an election, and where relevant a
region, at the start of a session; that choice, together with the user's stream,

> forms the `(stream_id, election)` partition key. The current configurations are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every record of data belongs to one election, represented by the `ElectionConfig`
enum (`src/core/election/`). The user selects an election, and a
region (if applicable) at the start of a session; this choice, together with the user's stream,
forms the `(stream_id, election)` partition key. The current configurations are:
```

- **EK27**: the 2027 Eerste Kamer (Senate) election. National, no region.
- **PS27(province)**: the 2027 Provinciale Staten election, one configuration per
  province.
- **WS27(water council)**: the 2027 waterschap (water authority) election, one
  configuration per water authority.

`ElectionConfig` is also the ruleset: it concentrates the differences between
elections in one place rather than scattering conditionals through the code.
Each configuration carries:

- its **electoral districts**: EK27 spans a fixed national set, a PS27 province
  has one or more districts, a WS27 water authority has exactly one;

> - the **key dates**: nomination day, election day, and the date-of-birth cutoff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the **significant dates**: nomination day, election day, and the date-of-birth cutoff
```

  for candidate eligibility;

> - whether the elected body has **nineteen or more seats**, a seat-count threshold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- whether the elected body has **nineteen or more seats**: a seat-count threshold
```

  that, among other things, selects the EML election subcategory;
- whether **Frisian-language document export** is allowed (Friesland and
  Wetterskip Fryslân only);
- the **titles** (Dutch, Frisian, English) used in the interface and the formal
  titles printed on the H-models.

## Project structure

### Crates

> e-KS is a single Rust binary (`eks`) plus two supporting library crates. They are

Reviewer: we also have the development crate. Although it's not directly pulled in by the e-KS crate, we should perhaps mention something about it somewhere

Author: I'll ad that.

*not* a Cargo workspace: `validate` and `auth-service` are pulled in as
path dependencies of the root crate, each keeping its own `Cargo.lock`.

- **`eks`** (root, `Cargo.toml` + `src/`): the application itself: an Axum web
  server with Askama HTML templates and an event-sourced domain model. The
  binary entry point is `src/bin/eks.rs`; everything else lives in the library
  (`src/lib.rs`), whose module doc-comment is a good companion to this document.
- **`validate/`**: a proc-macro crate exposing the `#[derive(Validate)]` macro.
  It generates the code that turns a submitted *form* struct into a validated
  *domain* struct, driven by `#[validate(...)]` field attributes
  (`target`, `parse`, `optional`, `not_empty`, `csrf`, `flatten`, `ignore`).
  This is what the per-domain `forms/` modules build on.

> - **`auth-service/`**: a small, application-agnostic crate providing the

Reviewer: perhaps mention how it supports (or will support) different backends (development login, tvs stub, the real tvs etc.)

Author: The auth-service is only a stub at this point in time. The tvs-mock (on a different branch) is a different crate. The development login is in the eks crate - so let's leave it like this for now.

  `/login` and `/logout` routes and an `AuthState` trait. The `eks` crate
  implements `AuthState` for its `AppState` and mounts this router; the crate
  itself knows nothing about e-KS domain types.

Document generation is done using Typst via the `typst-webservice` crate,
which is a separate binary dependency (not a library crate) that runs as

> an external process in production but is embedded in-process in dev with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an external process in production but is embedded in-process in development with
```

| `src/lib.rs` | Crate root: module wiring, public re-exports, architecture overview. |
| `src/router.rs` | Top-level Axum router; merges every domain's `router()` and applies middleware. |
| `src/state.rs` | `AppState`: the shared application state (config, store registry, sessions). |
| `src/filters.rs` | Askama template filters (display formatting, translation, validation errors). |
| `src/app/` | Application **domain** modules (see below). |
| `src/auth/` | Authentication: sessions, session storage/middleware, id derivation, development login endpoint. |
| `src/core/` | Cross-cutting infrastructure: `Config`, server startup, logging/tracing, election configuration, Askama/Typst rendering, PDF, CSV, ZIP, locales. |
| `src/store/` | The generic event store: persistence backends (memory/file/Postgres), at-rest encryption, the event hash chain, and the per-stream `StoreRegistry`. |
| `src/error/` | `AppError` and the rendering of error responses/pages. |
| `src/form/` | Generic form extraction and validation: the `Form<T>` extractor, CSRF tokens, file uploads, string validators. |
| `src/pagination/` | Reusable list-pagination helpers (params, page links, page info). |

> | `src/fixtures/` | Seed data loaded into the store on startup in dev/test (`fixtures` feature). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `src/fixtures/` | Sample data loaded into the store on startup in development/test (`fixtures` feature). |
```

same thing:

| Sub-folder / file | Contains |
|-------------------|----------|
| `mod.rs` | Module doc-comment, sub-module declarations, and public re-exports. |
| `pages/` | One file per page/flow: the Axum request handlers, the `TypedPath` route definitions, and the domain's `router()` that wires them up. `pages/mod.rs` declares the typed paths and assembles the router. |
| `forms/` | Form structs, the shape of submitted HTML forms, with `#[derive(Validate)]` annotations mapping them onto domain structs. |
| `extractors/` | Custom Axum extractors (`FromRequestParts`) that load a domain entity (or related state) from the URL/store for use by handlers. |
| `structs/` | The domain model types for this domain, used by handlers, the store projection, and templates. |
| `components/` | Askama HTML template **fragments** shared across the domain's pages (tables, form partials, step indicators). |

Page templates are co-located with their handlers: a handler in
`pages/update.rs` renders `pages/update.html`. Askama is configured
(`askama.toml`) to resolve templates relative to `src/app`, so templates can
reference fragments from any domain, most commonly the shared layout and macro

> fragments in `src/app/common/components/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference fragments from any domain. This is most used for the application-wide shared layout and macro fragments in `src/app/common/components/`.
```

A few domains also carry domain-specific helper files next to these folders,
for example `candidate_lists/importer.rs` (CSV/EML import) and
`political_groups/steps.rs` (multi-step flow state).

## Request lifecycle

A request passes through a fixed chain of middleware before it reaches a
handler. The router (`src/router.rs`) installs the layers; their effective
order on an incoming request is:

1. **`eks-key` gate.** If `EKS_KEY` is configured, the request must carry a
   matching `x-eks-key` header, otherwise it is rejected with `401`. When the
   key is unset this layer is a no-op. Intended for gating the app behind a
   known upstream.
2. **Tracing and security headers.** HTTP tracing is opened, and the security

>    response headers (CSP, `X-Frame-Options`, and so on) are scheduled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   response headers (CSP, `X-Frame-Options`, etc.) are scheduled.
```

3. **`session_middleware`.** Reads the `EKS_SESSION_ID` cookie and looks the
   session up in the `SessionStore`. A missing or invalid session redirects to
   `/login`. Otherwise the session's `last_activity` is refreshed and the
   `Session` is placed in the request extensions.
4. **`store_middleware`.** Takes the `(stream_id, current_election)` from the
   session and resolves the matching `AppStore` from the registry. A session
   that has not yet picked an election is redirected to `/select-election`. The
   middleware then calls `store.load()` so the projection catches up with any
   events this process has not seen, and places the `AppStore` in the request
   extensions.
5. **The handler.** Its arguments are extractors: the typed path, `Context`,
   `Session`, `AppStore`, the domain extractors (which load an entity from the
   store), `Form<T>` (parse and validate the body), and `State<...>`.

The handler itself follows one of two shapes:

- **Read (GET).** It reads from the `AppStore` projection, fills an Askama
  template struct, and returns `HtmlTemplate(template, context)`.

> - **Write (POST).** It validates the submitted `Form<T>`. On a validation error

Reviewer: Perhaps include a note that remove actions also use POST instead of DELETE HTTP method

  it re-renders the same page with the field errors. On success it constructs
  an `AppEvent` and calls `store.update(event)`, which persists and applies the
  event, then returns a redirect (the Post/Redirect/Get pattern).

An `AppError` returned from anywhere in this chain is caught by the
`render_error_pages` layer, which turns it into the appropriate HTML error page
and status code. On the way out, the session and store middleware may attach a
`Set-Cookie` header, the security headers are written, and the trace is closed.

> ## Key dependencies

Reviewer: perhaps include a url to each of the dependencies to either a github, crates.io or what not page.

e-KS deliberately keeps a small dependency tree (every crate is reviewed, and
`cargo deny` enforces the license/advisory policy in `deny.toml`). Five
dependencies shape the architecture enough to be worth describing on their own.

### `axum`: HTTP framework

The application *is* an Axum `Router`. The wiring follows a consistent pattern:

- **Per-domain routers.** Each `src/app/<domain>/` exposes a `router()` that
  returns a `Router<AppState>`; `src/router.rs::create` merges them all and adds

>   the cross-cutting layers. Feature-gated routers (dev login, the embedded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the cross-cutting layers. Feature-gated routers (development login, the embedded
```

  BAG endpoints, live-reload, `memory-serve` static assets) are merged in the
  same place.
- **Typed routing** (via `axum-extra`). Routes are declared as
  `#[derive(TypedPath, Deserialize)]` structs with a `#[typed_path("...")]`
  attribute and `rejection(AppError)`. Handlers take the typed-path struct as
  their first argument, so URLs are checked at compile time and can be built in

>   reverse, the `*_path()` helper methods on domain structs (e.g. on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  reverse, the `<endpoint>_path()` helper methods on domain structs (e.g. on
```

  `Candidate`) produce links for templates without hand-written URL strings.
- **Extractors.** Handlers declare what they need as arguments: the
  request-scoped `Context`, the `AppStore`, the `Session`, the `Form<T>`
  validating extractor, `State<TypstRenderer>`, and the custom per-domain
  extractors in each `extractors/` folder (which implement `FromRequestParts`
  to load a domain entity from the URL + store).
- **Middleware and layers.** Session handling, store resolution, error-page
  rendering, and the `eks-key` check are installed with

>   `middleware::from_fn_with_state`. `tower-http` adds the security response

Reviewer: related to [the earlier comment about links to libraries](https://github.com/kiesraad/e-ks/pull/706/changes#r3264857465), include a link to tower-http

  headers (CSP, `X-Frame-Options`, `X-Content-Type-Options`, `Referrer-Policy`)
  and HTTP tracing.
- **Shared state.** `AppState` derives `FromRef`, so sub-states such as
  `TypstRenderer` can be extracted directly into handlers without threading the

>   whole `AppState` through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `TypstRenderer` can be extracted directly into handlers without having to thread through the whole `AppState`.
```

### `askama`: compile-time HTML templates

All HTML is rendered with Askama, type-checked against its template structs at
compile time. `askama.toml` roots template resolution at `src/app`, and
templates are co-located with their handlers (`pages/update.rs` ↔

> `pages/update.html`); shared fragments live in each domain's `components/`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
templates are co-located with their handlers (for example, `pages/update.rs` lives right next to
`pages/update.html`); shared fragments live in each domain's `components/`,
```

with the global layout and macros in `src/app/common/components/`.

- A handler builds a `#[derive(Template)]` struct (`#[template(path = "...")]`)
  and returns it wrapped in `HtmlTemplate(template, context)`
  (`src/core/templates.rs`). `HtmlTemplate` implements `IntoResponse`: it

>   renders the template and sets `Cache-Control: no-store`.

Reviewer: perhaps useful to explain _why_ the cache control header is set this way

- Custom **filters** are defined in `src/filters.rs` with
  `#[askama::filter_fn]`. They cover i18n (`trans`), formatting (`display`,
  `datetime`, `flag`), validation-error display (`error`), and `*_value`
  accessors that read request-scoped data out of `askama::Values`.

### `memory-serve`: embedded static assets

The frontend (TypeScript + CSS) is bundled by esbuild into `frontend/static`.
In production those assets are compiled *into* the binary so there is no
separate asset directory to deploy:

- Gated behind the `memory-serve` cargo feature. `build.rs` calls
  `memory_serve::load_directory`, and `router.rs` uses the `memory_serve::load!()`
  macro to mount the assets under `/static`, with cache-busting filename
  aliases (`/{hash}-index.js`, `/{hash}-index.css`).
- When the feature is **off** (development), `/static` instead proxies to the
  esbuild dev server on `localhost:8888`, which also gives hot-reloading of CSS
  and JS. The URL paths are identical in both modes, so templates never need to
  know which mode is active.

### `typst-webservice`: PDF generation

The official candidate-nomination forms (models H1, H3-1, H4, H9, etc.) are produced

> as PDFs from Typst templates. The `submit` domain assembles serializable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as PDF files from Typst templates. The `submit` domain assembles serializable
```

`typst_*` input structs (`src/app/submit/structs/`) and hands them to a
`TypstRenderer` (`src/core/typst_renderer.rs`), which has two modes selected by
the `embed-typst` feature:

- **`Embedded`**: runs typst-webservice in-process from a `PdfContext` built
  out of Typst assets baked into the binary at build time (`build.rs` via
  `tooling/typst`, loaded by `src/utils/embed_typst.rs`). Rendering is CPU-bound,
  and runs on `spawn_blocking`.
- **`Http`**: POSTs the input JSON to an external typst-webservice over HTTP
  at `TYPST_URL`.

The renderer is built once at startup (`build_typst_renderer` in `state.rs`),
stored in `AppState`, and reached by handlers via `State<TypstRenderer>`.

> `submit/pages/documents.rs` renders multiple forms and streams them to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`submit/pages/documents.rs` renders multiple documents and streams them to the
```

client as a single ZIP download.

### `bag_address_lookup`: Dutch address lookup

Address fields are validated and autocompleted against the BAG
(*Basisregistratie Adressen en Gebouwen*): postal code + house number resolve
to a street and locality, and locality names autocomplete. This backs the
frontend's `/lookup` and `/suggest` endpoints.

> - Gated behind the `embed-bag` feature. `src/utils/embed_bag.rs` exposes a

Reviewer: > - Gated behind the `embed-bag` feature.

is not a full sentence. Perhaps explain above that the BAG service can be ran either as an external service or embedded where the bullet points consist of explanation of the embedded mode

  small router for `/lookup` and `/suggest` backed by a compressed BAG database
  embedded in the crate; the `DatabaseHandle` is decoded lazily on first use
  (`LazyLock`), so the first request is slower than the rest.
- The embedded endpoints are drop-in compatible with the external `bag-service`
  that `/lookup` and `/suggest` otherwise proxy to (`BAG_SERVICE_URL`, in
  `dev-features` mode). As with `memory-serve`, the frontend sees the same URLs
  either way.

## Configuration and feature flags

### Runtime configuration

> Runtime configuration is read from environment variables once at startup into a

Reviewer: perhaps also useful to mention that these variables can also be set through a file (and is preferable in many cases such as with secrets)

`Config` struct (`src/core/config.rs`), which is then `Box::leak`-ed to a
`&'static Config` and shared through `AppState`. The variables:

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|

> | `STORAGE_URL` | Persistence backend: `memory://`, `local://<dir>`, or `postgres://`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `STORAGE_URL` | Persistence backend: `memory://`, `local://<dir>`, or `postgres://<connection_string>`. |
```

| `ID_DERIVATION_KEY` | Master secret for stream-id derivation. |
| `ENCRYPTION_DERIVATION_KEY` | Master secret for event-payload encryption. |
| `TLS_CERT_PATH` / `TLS_KEY_PATH` | HTTPS certificate and key; both or neither. |
| `SERVER_NAME` | Short server identifier shown in the page footer. |
| `EKS_KEY` | Optional shared secret for the `x-eks-key` request gate. |
| `BIND_ADDRESS` | Address the server binds to (also accepted as a CLI argument). |

In `dev-features` builds a missing variable falls back to a built-in development
default; in a production build a missing required variable is a startup error
(`AppError::MissingEnvVar`).

### Cargo features

The build is tailored through Cargo features (`Cargo.toml`). The `default` set
is development-oriented; a production build typically disables `dev-features`
and enables the embedding and TLS features.

| Feature | Effect |
|---------|--------|
| `dev-features` | Relaxes config (dev defaults), enables the dev login and the bag-service proxy. |
| `database` | Postgres / SQLx storage backend. |
| `migrations` | Run database migrations on startup. |

> | `fixtures` | Optionally load seed data into the store when an election is selected. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixtures` | Optionally load sample data into the store when an election is selected. |
```

## Event storage and the event hash chain

### Event sourcing

e-KS uses **event sourcing**: rather than storing the current state of each
record and overwriting it on every change, the application stores every change
as an immutable event in an append-only log. The current state, the
`AppStoreData` projection, is never persisted directly; it is *derived* by
replaying that log of `AppEvent`s from the beginning.

This fits the application well for a few reasons:

- **Auditability.** The candidate-nomination procedure must be fair,
  transparent, and verifiable. An append-only event log *is* the audit trail:
  every change to a candidate list, person, or submitter is recorded with who
  made it and when, and nothing is ever silently overwritten. The `audit_log`
  domain is simply a read view over this same stream.
- **Bounded, short-lived data.** The data set is small and tied to a single
  election: it covers one nomination procedure and is cleared once that
  election is over. There is no long-lived, ever-growing dataset to replay, so
  the usual cost of event sourcing, replaying a long history to rebuild state,

>   stays negligible here.

Reviewer: also, long replays can be mitigated by using snapshots :)

- **Time travel.** Because state is a pure function of the event prefix,
  the exact state at any earlier point can be reproduced by replaying the log
  up to a chosen event. This makes it possible to reconstruct precisely what
  the system showed at a given moment, invaluable when a decision or dispute
  needs to be reviewed after the fact.

The remainder of this section describes how that event log is stored and how
its integrity is protected.

### The store at runtime

Event sourcing is implemented by a handful of generic types in `src/store/`,
parameterized over a projection type `D`:

- **`StoreData`** is the trait a projection implements: how to `apply` an event,
  and what its last event id and chain hash are. `AppStoreData` is the one
  concrete implementation.
- **`Store<D>`** is a handle scoped to a single `(stream_id, election)` pair. It
  owns the persistence backend, the per-stream encryption cipher, and the
  in-memory projection as an `Arc<RwLock<D>>`. Cloning a `Store` is cheap: the
  clone shares the same projection and persistence. `AppStore` is the alias
  `Store<AppStoreData>`.
- **`StoreRegistry<D>`** lives in `AppState` and caches one `Store` per

>   `(stream_id, election)` in a map behind an `RwLock`. `get_or_create` returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `(stream_id, election)` in a map behind a `RwLock`. `get_or_create` returns
```

properties matter here:

- **Deterministic.** The same BSN always maps to the same `StreamId`, so a
  returning user is reconnected to their existing stream, without the BSN ever
  being written to disk. The BSN is held only transiently in memory (wrapped in
  `SecretString`) while the ID is derived.
- **One-way and unguessable.** Because the derivation is an HKDF keyed with the
  master secret, a `StreamId` cannot be reversed back to a BSN, and an attacker
  cannot enumerate streams without also holding the secret.
  The persisted data is therefore keyed only by an opaque UUID; no
  private identification number appears in the database or in file names.

A domain-separation salt (`"e-KS BSN identifier derivation v1"`) and an
`info` prefix scope this derivation so its output can never collide with the
encryption-key derivation below. One `StreamId` covers all of a user's
elections; the `election` is a separate axis of the `(stream_id, election)`
key.

### Event payload encryption and key derivation

On the file and PostgreSQL backends every event payload is encrypted at rest
with AES-256-GCM, see `EventEncryption` / `EventCipher` in

> `src/store/encryption.rs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the file and PostgreSQL backends, every event payload is encrypted at rest
with AES-256-GCM. For implementation details, see `EventEncryption` / `EventCipher` in
`src/store/encryption.rs`.
```

encrypted, access-controlled volume. At-rest encryption only narrows the blast
radius of one specific failure: read access to the database or files *without*
access to the server's memory or its master secrets.

### The event hash chain

Every persisted event also carries a 32-byte `hash` that links it to the previous
event, forming a tamper-evident hash chain over the stream:

```
hash_n = SHA256( hash_{n-1} ‖ event_id_n (u64 LE) ‖ created_at_n (i64 LE, microseconds) ‖ body_n )
```

- `hash_0` (the predecessor of the first event) is the all-zero "genesis" hash
  (`GENESIS_HASH`).
- `body_n` is the *persisted* representation of the payload: the
  `nonce ‖ ciphertext ‖ tag` AES-GCM blob for the file/database backends, or the
  postcard encoding of the plaintext for the in-memory backend. Hashing the
  *encrypted* blob (which is indistinguishable from random and carries a fresh
  nonce) is deliberate: it lets the hash be stored **unencrypted** without leaking
  anything about the plaintext, while still committing to the exact stored bytes.
- `created_at` is hashed at microsecond precision because that is all that

>   survives a round-trip through the on-disk frame format and Postgres `timestamptz`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `created_at` is hashed at microsecond precision because that is the precision that remains after a round-trip through the on-disk frame format and Postgres `timestamptz`.
```
